I don't remember any wild partying, but then as aforementioned, I was not into the wild party group.
I remember that there was encouragement to use chewing tobacco because that was what real lumberjacks used.
And I remember maybe chewing some chewing tobacco, but I don't remember getting
getting sick so I probably managed to mix it with bubble gum.
And since I had played baseball, I knew all about chewing tobacco and that you didn't swallow it and so forth.
Describe court trips in your era.
Court trips were a wonderful experience.
I remember we used to go with buddies to wherever the court trip city was and that would either be Dallas or Fort Worth.
Houston or Austin and we would usually go the night before on a Friday night to wherever it was and would either stay in a friend's house or would stay in a hotel or motel room 15 or 20 of us in a room and the next morning we would get up bright and early and put our uniforms on and go to the
location within the town where we were to form up and we'd find our outfits and proudly as I remember parade down the down the streets and go from the parade to the the ball game and as I recall we had a tremendous spirit and a
outscored uh cause and then after the the game it was uh outfit uh parties that uh that saturday evening i do remember going to a
a corps party one time that was in Dallas, but mostly all I remember is outfit parties.
So you probably made all eight corps trips to a year?
I didn't miss a corps activity, so I'm sure I went to all the corps trips.
Was there any of those core trips that is special in your memory, either a special plus or minus?
Well, I think that the one that, they were all pluses.
I remember the first one my freshman year, which was in Fort Worth against TCU because I went with a buddy from Dallas, Mike Richardson, and we stayed at his house in Dallas and we had to get up the next day.
early and drive over to Fort Worth and form up and go to the game.
I remember that well.
I remember, I don't remember what year it was, but I remember marching down Congress Avenue over in Austin up towards the state capitol when we played the hated T-Sips and that was kind of unique since having grown up in North Dakota, my exposure to the state capitol and the whole capitol city of Austin had been minimal up to that point.
The observers on the sidewalks watching the Corps trip, were they always polite?
Oh, yeah.
The receptiveness that the Corps received from the audience that watched, I don't, yeah, it was very positive, very polite.
I don't remember any heckling or anything being thrown.
It was all a very, very positive experience.
Based on that, do you wish it was still possible for us to do Corps trips now?
Well,
The court trips that we do now, we still go to Waco and we go to Austin, but the court trips that we used to have to Dallas and Fort Worth and to Houston are no longer doing because we don't play those schools other than the fact of my, I think it was my first year has come, maybe the second year when we played North Texas in Texas Stadium in Dallas.
We had a court trip to Fort Worth and had a parade in downtown Fort Worth that went very well.
And my role as commandant, when I asked the athletic director about was there any thought given to us continuing to play schools, former Southwest Conference schools, because of the
desirability of having court trips to these large Texas cities, his response was they didn't consider that when they came up with their non-conference schedules and that the football coach, head football coach, Coach R.C.
Slocum, according to Mr. Groff, did not necessarily want to play former Southwest Conference schools.
When we go to Austin now, there's not a parade down?
Yes, there is.
Oh, there still is?
There continues to be a parade in Austin down
down Congress Avenue and it's the Austin Texas A&M Club is very forthcoming in their sponsorship.
They provide a large reviewing stand downtown and the turnout by all the people in Austin is really good.
Of course all the Aggies come, Aggies from Austin and a lot of parents that are going to the game.
And of course you always have the potential of having the governor come.
During my time as a commandant, we had three corps trips to Austin and at least two, if not more, we had Governor Bush out and I believe at least once or twice his former president Bush came.
Of course, Governor Bush is now our 43rd president.
Favorite corps trip memories?
from your student days?
Could it be serious or sad or happy?
Oh, I think they all kind of blend together, all the core trips.
I remember all just the fun of being all together and the fun of representing Texas A&M and the happening that's Aggie football then, as is now, which involves...
YELL LEADERS AND THE BAND AND THE WHOLE EXPERIENCE.
BEING A YELL LEADER, HOW DOES ONE GET TO BE A YELL LEADER?
WELL, IN MY DAY IT WAS STUDENT ELECTIONS AND TODAY IT CONTINUES TO BE A STUDENT ELECTION.
I REMEMBER AS A STUDENT WHEN I WENT OUT TO BE A YELL LEADER BOTH JUNIOR YEAR AND SENIOR YEAR THAT I DID A LOT OF
personal campaigning I remember certainly when I was a sophomore campaign to be a junior year leader of going to every every classmate's room that was in the Corps and either introducing myself or leaving a I guess reintroducing myself since I knew so many but asking for their support and then those those that I couldn't contact I left a note in there on their door asking for their support and then by the time
running for senior Yale leader.
It was, I don't recall quite as the intense campaigning because I guess if you'd done okay as a junior Yale leader, there was a possibility of a re-election and they re-elected me, so I guess I'd done okay.
Now, did you as a sophomore, was it your idea or did somebody come to you and say they wanted you to run?
I recall as a sophomore that it was some of my classmates may have talked it up, but I recall that it was a thought process that I went through and made the decision myself.
I didn't feel, I didn't feel coerced, but I didn't feel like there was a huge ground swell like I had been drafted to run either.
I think it was an individual, I think I'd
Like to be a Yale leader and represent the school and carry on the ideals that the Yale leaders seem to portray, which was enthusiasm for Aggie athletic teams and making sure that the 12th man turned out and supported the team.
Did you have any posters, brochures, cards?
I don't recall any campaign material at all.
So you didn't have a campaign fund?
No, nothing like I see these days.
What are some of your favorite Yale leader memories?
Well, I certainly remember in
Being a junior Yale leader in 1963 when we had the eventual national champions, the T-Sips down in the fourth quarter when they came back and squeezed out that game.
So that's a bitter memory.
In fact, I remember that as a senior Yale leader that we did not outscore our opponents even at one home football game on Kyle Field.
So when we beat and outscored SMU in Dallas,
We got back to campus and we had yell practice on either Monday or Tuesday nights that the fish cadets took the yell leaders and took us to the fish pond after yell practice because I guess they sensed there might not be another opportunity that year and we wanted to keep that tradition alive.
For out-of-town games in that era, how did yell leaders get to the out-of-town location?
We just traveled by our private, personally or privately owned vehicles by the cars that we had or went with a buddy or just,
Just got there.
Did you pay your own expenses?
Very much so, yeah.
I don't remember any help from the university to cover any expenses for Yale Air.
In terms of the fans from the other school, what was the most polite opponent and the least polite opponent in your era?
Oh, I think the politeness was pretty much standard.
I didn't see too much animosity between the fans and I think everybody
Hopefully my eyes aren't getting rosy tinted with ages, but I just remember everybody was very intense about their own team, but there wasn't the animosity or the hatred that you see now other than the fact that
The team over in Austin was always just seemed bigger and stronger and better prepared and you name it, just about any sport.
Well, with the exception of basketball and baseball, we were pretty even.
In fact, we won a basketball championship and a baseball championship.
Well, I was here and I remember loving, really, really enjoying being a Yale leader at the basketball games in G. Raleigh because we had the whole Aggie band there and it was almost a sellout every game.
And there was so much enthusiasm and so much...
I guess, spirit that was generated in the closed confines of G. Raleigh, especially after some of the football games of less than 25,000 in Kyle Field.
The basketball games in G. Raleigh were a real treat.
Back to football.
Did Yale leaders ever have any pranks played on them?
Did the students ever, when you guys were?
I don't recall any pranks ever being played on us as Yale leaders.
There may have been, but I don't remember.
No one ever stole our uniforms or did anything like that.
I don't remember.
Did you very often have a date to a football game as a Yale leader?
Well I remember my, yes, I had a, as I recall, a senior year I had a different date for every game.
And where'd you get those dates?
I don't remember.
I don't know, I had friends or.
Any blind dates?
Oh yeah, blind dates and, you know, dating then was a, I guess more of a,
higher activity than it might be today.
Did you have any blind dates with a Tessie?
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, from TWU I certainly did.
How were those young ladies treated?
Oh, I think, you know, once again, as you can tell, I have very rosy glasses on it, my own experiences and the core experiences.
felt like, by and large, the young ladies were treated with respect and decorum.
That just seemed to be the nature of things.
All right, a series of traditions now.
Silver taps.
Do you remember going the first time?
Oh, definitely.
I remember how it was impressed upon us by the upperclassmen and how important it was.
And I remember the feelings of true remorse and sadness that I felt to contemplate the person whose life had been suddenly and tragically ended.
I remember it very well.
Did everybody take Silvertap seriously?
I, best I can recall, I don't ever recall an incident during the time I was in the Corps where there was anything but absolute adherence to the policies and practices of Silvertown.
In 220 plus interviews, I have not yet heard a single exception to what you just said.
Everybody has said.
And of course, it was not held as often then.
And there was more personal acquaintance then with the person than now.
It seemed like they would, so many of them would occur on a weekend traffic accident and you'd have silver taps on Monday or Tuesday and it was almost immediate.
Muster.
Did you go to Muster regularly?
Yeah, I've never, I've never recalled missing a muster, and I, the ones I can recall on campus, it's kind of dim, but I do remember them being out in front of the academic building, and I, it must have been my, must have been my freshman year, the first one, because it was so, so different, once again, impressed upon me than I imagined later on in junior and senior year.
either as a Ross volunteer or some core capacity I probably had some requirement to
perform and I was probably more wrapped up in making sure my small, small bit in the performance was correct as opposed to thinking the thoughts of tradition and history that I sense very strongly in muster now.
Alright, looking then and now, what does muster really symbolize?
I just, maybe I'm breaking it down to the simplest terms for me, muster is a connection to the Texas A&M, the values and traditions of Texas A&M that have sustained the university and made the university unique.
have been going on for years and the ideals, if you will, that all Aggies I would like to think are aware of and aspire to live up to and I think it's what I see now muster is a rededication and a restating of the ideals and practices and uniqueness of Texas A&M.
I think that's a very, very important tradition that we should never let go.
Midnight Yell Practice, where was it held in your era?
Midnight Yell Practice in my era was always held in Kyle Field and it always was preceded by a march through the campus.
The band would come down the quad.
And then we would march around the campus in a circuitous manner to include going around the fish pond and end up in Kyle Field and come into Kyle Field and have Midnight Yelp practice.
And it began at about 11, 11.30?
I want to say, gosh, the band maybe stepped off at 11.
And I think there was more of a...
At midnight we were having the Yale practice or maybe it was just wrapping up about midnight.
Now, you mentioned Ross Volunteers a while ago.
As far as you know, how did a young person get considered for being an RV?
As best I can recall, you had to submit an application.
Oh, okay.
And the applications were acted upon by the seniors.
and they determined the 72 cadets in the junior class that were going to be Ross Volunteers and that's essentially the way it is done now but now there is a quota system by
major units.
Oh, in that era it was not?
There was no quota system.
If we looked at the numbers then, would we have found more Air Force or Army?
I don't know.
I think that it was probably, Air Force and Army was probably in proportion to the Corps, but I think there were less
In fact, I recall there was less people from the Aggie Band that were in the Ross Volunteers than there are now.
And it's a good idea, I believe, strongly now that we do have the Aggie Band as very active in the Ross Volunteers.
Now, as far as you're aware, in that era, who actually made the selection?
In our era, the selection was made on votes by the cadets themselves.
And I don't recall...
votes of those already in the RVs?
Yes, already in the RVs.
I don't recall any involvement by any superiors, advisors, or anybody from the Trigon.
Were there any, did people go door to door shaking hands, campaigning?
No, any campaigning, as I recall, would have been frowned upon.
What you did is you submitted your application and
It was acted upon.
I think that campaigning would have been looked upon as somebody trying to politely curry favor, and that would have been a huge no-no.
Were you aware that there were secret fraternities at A&M?
No, I never heard about any secret fraternities when I was a student, and I hear about them now, but I've never had anybody that ever said they were him.
Maybe I'm such a—continue to be a straight-laced guy that people don't tell me about them, but some people I know and respect have said—have absolutely assured me that there are, but I said,
All right, let me mention to you that a young man named Sterling Evans indicated there was when he was here.
They were the TTs, the True Texans, and the swastikas.
They hadn't yet shortened it to stickers.
You see, this is long before Adolf Hitler and his group discovered the Navajo good luck sign.
And as far as I've been able, from the few people that have said anything about it, as far as I can tell, the only purpose of any of those was to try to help get their members as key A&M student leaders.
That was their only motive.
It wasn't to take over or it wasn't to do anything good or bad.
Senior ring, how many hours?
Was it 95 then?
I don't recall.
What did it cost?
Do you remember?
I want to say, just best I can recall, something like $30 or $35.
Was it your money or did somebody in the family give you the money?
Oh, no.
I definitely spent my own money.
And do you have any ring stories?
Have you ever lost it?
Never.
Have you been in some unusual place and somebody saw it, spotted it, called you an Aggie?
I don't have any dramatic stories that anywhere rival the things I read in the Texas Aggie Magazine or people have told me, but I've had it recognized enough over the years and I always notice Aggie rings.
Why are Aggie rings so treasured?
I don't know.
I treasure my experiences as a student and I treasure my experiences in the Corps.
My ring is, to me, is a symbol of all the activities as well as the growth and evolution of thought and ideals that occurred while I was a student.
Is that ring by chance the single most symbolic item of what Texas A&M really is?
I wondered, if you do this, this, this, you are an Aggie, you are accepted, you are... No, I wouldn't say that.
Texas Aggies.
It's such an individual thing.
I think that being an Aggie and living up to the ideals is a lifetime experience and a lifetime commitment.
I don't think you ever, March final review, you ever get a ring and say, hey, I'm done.
I'm an Aggie and it's all done.
Oh, no, no, no.
I wasn't meaning that.
I was meaning that it doesn't matter what your last name is.
what your ancestry was, what your family income is.
If you are part of this group and do your share of the effort, you're accepted.
Well, I don't know because you have so many kids now that go through and the university is so large that I just think it has to be a personal thing, what it means to you as an individual.
What does it mean?
Oh, I have a great deal of pride in being an Aggie, have a great deal of pride in being my, wear my Aggie ring, but my pride is when I think of people that I'm similar to, you know, it's...
It's people that I knew in the Corps and it's, you know, a lot of our, a lot of our legends.
You know, the Evans, Rudder, people that I, that I know are, you know, Tourney Leonard, et cetera, the Medal of Honor winners.
That's the Aggies that, that, that come to my mind.
Senior boots, where'd you get them?
How much they cost?
My senior boots I bought for $15, they were used, and I was always kept all my boots and shoes shined, so when I graduated I was able to sell them for $25, so they were, they were shined and looked a lot better than when I got them.
Reckon how many years old they were when you bought them?
I don't know, five or ten years old.
Were they Hollicks or do you know?
I don't remember.
What color?
They were brown.
Your saber?
You know, I, I knew I was going in the Marine Corps and in the Marine Corps we have, we had swords and I think I carried a Marine Corps officer's sword my, my senior year, but I, I, I can't be sure.
Was it one you bought or was it issued or another?
Well, I never, I
I bought my Marine Corps officer's sword, but I'm not sure I had it if my Aggie Sabre, because I didn't keep it.
I don't know what happened.
When I retired as a Commandant, I was presented an Aggie Sabre and very proudly received it.
It's the only one that I have.
All right.
Final review.
What were your thoughts on that weekend?
Vietnam was heating up.
I don't want this to sound self-serving, but I was ready to leave A&M, and I had really, really enjoyed my cadet experiences, but it was over.
It was done.
I was ready to go, and I wasn't one of these people that broke down emotionally or cried.
It was like
Hey, it was great.
I gave it all I had for four years, and I have no regrets about effort I gave or things that I did, and I'm ready to move on.
How well did you feel A&M had prepared you?
Well, outstandingly.
I felt my whole time in the Marine Corps that I had a huge advantage leg up.
on so many things from leadership to handling stress to confidence to dealing with people to you name it.
I'm one of those guys I can get very emotional and say that the reason I'm alive today is because of lessons
and values that I picked up in the Corps of Cadets.
First time to Vietnam there was four second lieutenants and two of us lived.
Second time to Vietnam there was
two of us again the other guy was severely wounded spent a year in a hospital and the third time it was two captains again and the other guy was killed and I lived and so it's like you know two out of four and one out of two and one out of two I wouldn't want to I don't know what the odds are there but I think the only thing that separated me from the other guys was was my A&M background and just being able to to handle stress and
perform when the chips were down and, as I say, values and techniques and skills and whatever it was, it just all seemed to me the only thing that come from A&M was the only thing that was different about us was Texas A&M background.
And for final review and commencement for you, who came?
Family, friends, loved ones, et cetera?
Well, my mom and my mother, my mother and father
dropped me off when I was a fish in front of the YMCA and the next time they came back to campus was Final Review.
I think their total time on the campus during my four years was probably less than five hours, but that's not to say that we weren't close because
My mom and dad were both good letter writers, as was I, so we stayed in good communications, and I think they had a lot of confidence in me, and I never felt overly supervised, but I always felt like I clearly knew what their expectations were.
Did they have any special words for you on commencement, final review day?
No, I don't.
How they felt or anything?
No, I think it was, there was no dramatic message or no dramatic moment.
All right, after commencement, how long before you reported for active duty?
Let's see, I spent one night in Palestine and then drove to Quantico.
It was probably about four or five days before I got in Quantico.
So, now looking back, we're getting near the end.
As you look back over all of these A&M years, what did you learn here that was so important?
I think enduring values.
I think the idea of being a good teammate.
I really believe that I'm not sure we ever know that we're really a good leader, but I know for sure that I was a good teammate.
And I think when you're a good teammate and you know you're a good teammate, that when you're required to lead, when you step out forward,
Because you've always given such a full measure to the team that you can with confidence expect other members of the team, whether it's a platoon or a company or a battalion, to give their full effort.
And I think when you do that with confidence, I think other people sense it.
And I think they're more likely to follow, especially when the chips are down.
And A&M encouraged that?
Most definitely.
I think A&M, the Marine Corps,
Tremendous emphasis on leadership, but the best leadership training and experiences I got was at Texas A&M.
It had to be, obviously, it was my first exposure to the military, my first exposure to being away from home and really on my own, but it was also an environment that taught teamwork and values.